README.md, before:

# OpenTag3D: Open Source Filament RFID Standard

> [!WARNING]
> OpenTag3D is not yet production ready. The spec is still being finalized. When it is ready, the version number will become 1.000.

RFID is becoming more prevalent, with each company launching their own RFID system that is incompatible with the rest. OpenTag3D strives to be a standard that allows RFID tags to work across all brands.

OpenTag3D defines a standard for the following:

- **Hardware** - The specific underlying RFID technology
- **Mechanical Requirements** - Positioning of tag on the spool
- **Data Structure** - What data should be stored on the RFID tag, and how that data should be formatted
- **Web API** - How extended data should be formatted when an optional online spool lookup is requested

## View Specification

The specification is hosted on the [OpenTag3D website](https://opentag3d.info/spec). Alternatively, you may view the raw Markdown file [here](./spec.md).

## Backers

OpenTag3D is backed by various companies that are implementing OpenTag3D into their printers, filament, add-ons, etc. See the list of companies [on the About page of the website](https://opentag3d.info/about#backers).

Want to join the list? [Open an issue here!](https://github.com/queengooborg/OpenTag3D/issues/new?template=backer.yml)

Commit message:

Add a badge of the current OpenTag3D version

README.md, after:

# OpenTag3D: Open Source Filament RFID Standard

![Current OpenTag Version (see `_config.yml` for the current version)](https://img.shields.io/badge/dynamic/yaml?url=https%3A%2F%2Fraw.githubusercontent.com%2Fqueengooborg%2FOpenTag3D%2Frefs%2Fheads%2Fmain%2F_config.yml&query=%24.opentag_version&style=for-the-badge&label=OpenTag%20Version)

> [!WARNING]
> OpenTag3D is not yet production ready. The spec is still being finalized. When it is ready, the version number will become 1.000.

RFID is becoming more prevalent, with each company launching their own RFID system that is incompatible with the rest. OpenTag3D strives to be a standard that allows RFID tags to work across all brands.

OpenTag3D defines a standard for the following:

- **Hardware** - The specific underlying RFID technology
- **Mechanical Requirements** - Positioning of tag on the spool
- **Data Structure** - What data should be stored on the RFID tag, and how that data should be formatted
- **Web API** - How extended data should be formatted when an optional online spool lookup is requested

## View Specification

The specification is hosted on the [OpenTag3D website](https://opentag3d.info/spec). Alternatively, you may view the raw Markdown file [here](./spec.md).

## Backers

OpenTag3D is backed by various companies that are implementing OpenTag3D into their printers, filament, add-ons, etc. See the list of companies [on the About page of the website](https://opentag3d.info/about#backers).

Want to join the list? [Open an issue here!](https://github.com/queengooborg/OpenTag3D/issues/new?template=backer.yml)
